MPIOM (incl. HAMOCC) release_1_3 (beta)

MPIOM can be either run stand alone or coupled to HAMOCC. This tar
file provides everything needed to run omip type experiments with a 3
deg. 40 level setup either MPIOM or MPIOM+HAMOCC on the DKRZ SX-6.

Both MPIOM and HAMOCC use MPI2 library for internal communication (see
http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/mpich2) and are partly doing IO for the 
initial, restart and output files based on UCAR's netCDF 
(see http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/packages/netcdf).

 The user has to edit config/mh-xxx for the machine dependent
settings, e.g. the user has to set the variable NETCDFROOT to the
netcdf root directory on his machine or specify NETCDF_LIB and
NETCDF_INCLUDE (see below). The "mh-xxx" files for linux, solaris and
the DKRZ SX (called mh-nec) are working, the others are copies from
echam5 and can be used as guide line if the model is ported to one of
these platforms.

In order to create a Makefile for MPIOM type:

configure 

The location of NetCDF and cdi can be specified via arguments
--with-netcdf-root=/pathnetcdf, --with-cdi-root=/pathcdi. configure
will then try to link with the appropriate libraries by emitting
-L/path{netcdf|cdi}/lib and compile with headers included with
-I/path{netcdf|cdi}/include. Both flags can be specified if something
more specific is required by adding --with-{netcdf|cdi}-{lib|include}
on the command line.

In case --enable-CDI is given but no cdi-library can be found in the
system, a version of cdi provided with MPIOM will be used as fallback.

Note: MPI can be disabled by typing:

configure --enable-MPI=no

Note: In case MPI2 is not available cpp keyword <use_com_MPI1> can be
used to force MPI1.

In order to create a Makefile for MPIOM+HAMOCC type

configure --enable-HAMOCC=yes


Cross compiling on the DKRZ cross: 

configure --host=sx6 

to build an executable for DKRZ NEC SX6

The automake setup of MPIOM supports multiple configurations in other
directories than the source tree. I.e. to build mpiom in
/path/to/mpiom-build when the source tree was unpacked in /path/to/mpiom do:

cd /path/to/mpiom-build
/path/to/mpiom/configure

Please note that /path/to/mpiom-build cannot be a subdirectory of
/path/to/mpiom.

In order to compile type:

make

The mpiom binary will then be built in bin/mpiom.x

To install the program in /usr/local/bin run

make install

To choose another a place generally available, i.e. /opt/mpiom, run
configure with the --prefix=/opt/mpiom argument.